justin rice I'm the vp of the ecosystem
at the Stellar development foundation
where i work with people to understand
where I work with people to understand
how to use the network developers and
enterprises and at the sdf our goal is
to support the open source open
participation Stellar network of which
you will hear a lot about in a minute in
order to
increase equitable access to the world's
financial infrastructure
marta hello and yeah I'm martha lakova
I'm a software engineer on the Stellar
core team
at cell development foundation and so i
work on the actual implementation of a
distributed ledger which is what powers
the Stellar network so really excited
to be here with you
we ready all right we are going to dive
in this is going to be a fairly in-depth
explanation of Stellar and of the
blockchain technology that powers it
we're going to talk for a while I'm
going to talk for a while hand it to
marta and then we'll probably pause
about halfway through for questions
and then we'll sort of dig roll up our
sleeves and sort of do a little bit of
playing around with the actual network
so
technical deep dive interstellar
quick agenda i'll explain how the
Stellar network works i guess i just
Stellar network works I guess I just
sort of went through this give it to
marta to talk about how it compares to
other blockchains and then we will talk
about sort of open source and an open
source project and then we'll use the
Stellar laboratory and leave some time
for q a okay
the Stellar network
the Stellar network is made up of nodes
nodes
nodes nodes what are nodes
nodes are computers that connect and
communicate with one another to keep a
common accounting ledger and to approve
and ratify changes to it so on the image
on the right all those dots those are
nodes
Stellar's open participation so anyone
can spin up one of these nodes and they
run this thing called Stellar core that
marta helps build
it's decentralized because these nodes
are run by independent individuals and
organizations all over the globe so each
of those dots is a computer running
style according to community
the common ledger that nodes work
together to keep it's stable
physics major in the
college nice and you guys are all
students can you please mute your
microphones thank you i thought that was
microphones thank you I thought that was
like a like just like coming in hot with
a question at the top
and i would i approved that
and I would I approved that
that level of verve and engagement
okay
ledger understanding the ledger so i
said that knowns work to keep a common
ledger it's stable it's secure it's
transparent stable because the network
is spread over a bunch of servers and
computers all over the world so you
can't turn it off there's not a central
server it's secure because the ledger
entries are immutable right once a
transaction has been processed no one
can change the data or manipulate the
numbers to their liking and it's
transparent because like many
blockchains like all black public
blockchains
everyone can see the ledger and trust
that the information is correct
that's the ledger so
nodes keep the ledger and what's on the
ledger well
accounts
accounts accounts accounts accounts are
the essential data structure in Stellar
they are saved on this global ledger
they hold balances they sign
transactions they also issue assets
and account access is controlled by
public private key cryptography so every
Stellar account has a public key usually
they start with g
and every account also has a secret key
which always starts with an s the public
key is safe to share right that's how
people identify your account so they
verify you authorize the transaction
it's kind of like your email address
people need to know it to send you an
email
that reference feels probably dated to
many of you
your secret key however is private
information that proves that you own
your account it's like your password
can't share with anybody you use your
secret key to sign transactions which
essentially call functions that change
the state of the ledger so transactions
that's the next word transactions
transactions transactions
transactions on Stellar are made up of
operations which are the actual
functions that change the ledger so a
payment that's an operation offered to
buy an asset to sell an asset that is an
operation
now this is Stellar vernacular here it's
a little confusing because operations
honestly that's what most people think
of when they think of transactions but
on Stellar you can actually bundle 100
operations
into a single transaction you can put
them in a specific order they execute in
that order
you can use that to do some interesting
things we won't get into it right now
but when i say operations you can kind
but when I say operations you can kind
of think transactions
most transactions in fact consist of a
single operation
each of the entries that you see in this
example ledger that's a single operation
transaction so lisa sends me fifty
dollars thank you lisa
transactions are time stamped
and they contain unique identifying
information and every three to five
seconds those nodes that we talked about
earlier they bundle all the transactions
together into a set they apply that set
to change the state of the ledger let us
walk through that process so it all
starts with a ledger which is again is
essentially a list of accounts and
balances it's like a giant spreadsheet
and a sql database
users wherever they are in the world
they submit transactions to send and
exchange assets on the network some of
these are individual users with Stellar
wallets some of these are businesses
using making b2b payments
and using Stellar they can move funds
anywhere in the world they can convert
currency along the way thanks to a
built-in system of exchange that
includes order books and automated
market makers which we will talk about
later
these transactions are essentially
bundled into sets they're confirmed by
validating nodes they are applied to the
ledger at which point they're final and
create an immutable record and then the
whole process starts over
so why is a blockchain ledger immutable
why can't someone change the previous
entries on the ledger how do these
transaction sets come together and get
finalized anyway to answer those
questions I'm going to pass the mic to
marta who's going to dig in and explain
how blockchain protocols work generally
and also how the Stellar consensus
protocol works specifically marta
hello justin thank you always great to
hear you talk about these things so
yeah so let's dive a bit deeper into
technical aspects of the Stellar network
and the Stellar consensus protocol in
particular so to do this we're going to
put things into perspective we're going
to compare Stellar to two biggest
blockchains out there bitcoin and
ethereum
so let's start with the intended
function of these three blockchains so
bitcoin was the first blockchain to show
a decentralized completely native
store of value a completely internet
native store of value excuse me so we
think of it as the first internet native
money
recently more and more people have been
referring to
bitcoin as digital gold due to its
scarcity and potentially a way to beat
inflation but in this talk which is
going to focus on kind of the initial
goal of bitcoin as outlined in the
bitcoin paper which is digital money
on the other hand
ethereum acts as a general purpose
decentralized computer so what i mean
decentralized computer so what I mean
here is that it provides infrastructure
for developers to write programs or
smart contracts that can really execute
anything
so this allows a variety of different
applications on the ethereum network so
things like nfts or borrowing lending
applications asset issuance and so forth
and so finally Stellar focuses on
payments so Stellar is really good for
fast and cheap payments as well as
issuing digital assets on the network
for example on Stellar you can issue
stable coins such as usdc
so next let's compare consensus
mechanisms for each of these blockchains
so bitcoin and ethereum both use
proof-of-work
which we're going to discuss in a lot
more detail in the next slide but for
now i also wanted to know that ethereum
now I also wanted to know that ethereum
is actually
in the process of a major upgrade as
they're moving away from proof of work
towards proof of stake
so while the intended
proof of stake model actually has some
better properties when it comes to
securities and scalability in this
talk we'll mostly focus on the current
state of ethereum
and then so for seller it actually
used a completely different approach to
consensus specifically it uses federated
byzantine agreement which is implemented
via the Stellar consensus protocol to
achieve consensus
so let's actually dive a little deeper
and
try to understand what different
differentiates all these consensus
mechanisms
so first i just want to kind of step
so first I just want to kind of step
back and emphasize that a consensus
mechanism is vital for the security of
the blockchain it is essentially what
allows all the nodes on the blockchain
to agree on something in a safe way
if nodes don't agree on transaction in a
safe way it opens up a possibility for
double spend attack
so a double spend attack is essentially
spending the same money twice a quick
example here imagine paying five dollars
for parking but then spending the same
five dollars to buy an ice cream so you
received the goods for a total of value
of ten dollars meaning that you got the
parking space time and you got an ice
cream yet you only paid five dollars for
everything so consensus mechanisms want
to ensure that
such a scenario can happen
so now let's dive a little deeper into
what a proof-of-work system is
so to reach consensus nodes need to
agree on transactions to confirm in the
next block
in proof-of-work systems each validator
solves a very difficult math problem
that requires a lot of computational
resources it is also proven that
there's no shortcuts to the solution so
the only way to get to the right answer
is to actually perform the computation
i.e show the proof of work
so validators
the first validator that solves that
problem essentially gets to create the
next block
and then validators that create creates
that block they broadcast it to everyone
else on a network
so as other nodes on the network
discover the new block they basically
accept it
since it's it's essentially a longer
chain and then once they accept it they
can start working on the next block on
top of that newly created block
so here again i want to kind of
so here again I want to kind of
emphasize that validators on the network
accept the longest chain so
if the validator is first to mine the
block it basically creates that longer
chain that is later discovered and
accepted by others
so another thing about proof-of-work is
that validators are incentivized to
participate in the block creation that
we just discussed because they receive
monetary rewards in the form of coins
for producing these new blocks and you
might have heard about about this this
process is called mining and it's very
popular
so now let's shift gears a little bit
and talk about how Stellar approaches
consensus it's actually a completely
different consensus mechanism because
there are no computationally heavy tasks
so instead nodes select other nodes on a
network that they trust
and they exchange messages with those
nodes to agree on a set of transactions
to confirm in a particular block and we
call these sets of trusted nodes quorum
slices so
let's unpack what quorum slices actually
mean
so to understand how consensus is
reached on Stellar let's first look at
the examples of these quantum slices
that we just discussed so recall that a
quorum slice is a set of nodes that a
validator chooses to trust
on the right we have a network of four
nodes a b c and d and we express trust
relationship between these nodes
with arrows so for example a has b and c
in its quorum slice
and another example is node b it has a c
and d in its quorum slice
so now that we know what quorum slices
are let's define quorum
so
quorum is a non-empty set of nodes that
contains a slice for each member so for
example a b and c is not a quorum why
well because it actually does not
contain a slice full slice for b and c
if you look at the diagram
so you see that d is in the quorum slice
for both b and c
so it must be in the form on the other
hand a b c and d is a quorum because it
includes a slice for each member
so now that we know what quorum slices
and forms are the key detail of
consensus on Stellar is that network the
network only confirms a block if a
quorum agrees on that block so it needs
the agreement of a whole quorum to
confirm the transactions
great so now that we've talked a little
bit about consensus let's switch to
open participation so
what does it mean to have open
participation
it means that there's no central
authority allowing or preventing you
from participating on the network
meaning that anyone can join and start
validating transactions and
participating in consensus and we wanted
to include this feature because it's
just so vital for decentralization as
and as you can see all three networks
have that but we thought it was
important to include this feature as
well
all right cool so next we have some
key security properties to go over so as
you can see bitcoin and ethereum prefer
liveness and stella prefers safety and
liveness and Stellar prefers safety and
you're probably very confused because i
haven't defined either liveness or
safety so we're going to unpack this
so we're not going to spend too much
time on the actual computer science
theory here but the most important
important point that i want to convey is
important point that I want to convey is
that there are three desired properties
that consensus mechanisms always want to
have so
those are safety liveness and full
tolerance what do they mean
so safety is a guarantee that all nodes
produce the same block the same valid
block meaning that nodes can't produce
contradicting block blocks aliveness
guarantees that nodes will eventually
produce a new block and won't just hold
and you know be not being unresponsive
and then finally fault tolerance ensures
that the network can tolerate node
failure so either nodes going down or
actually becoming malicious and sending
like conflicting messages to other nodes
so in distributed systems it is proven
that you can only have two out of three
of these properties and typically
consensus protocols always want to
guarantee fault tolerance
and because consensus protocols select
fault tolerance they're left with
deciding between safety and lightness so
what exactly happens when either safety
or liveness are selected
so if we choose safety which guarantees
that all nodes will produce the same
block
nodes will get stuck until they can they
can all produce the same block remember
safety means that nodes can't produce
differing blocks
on the other hand
if we choose liveness nodes choose to
produce a blog any blog
meaning that they choose to stay alive
but they may produce a block that will
later be overridden by a different block
as network advances in consensus
so this this potentially invalid block
is actually what can open up a
possibility for a a double spend attack
and we'll look into example of this
a little bit closer in the next slide as
well
yeah so let's see a visual example of
how liveness is picked over safety so
here yeah each clipboard icon basically
represents a block and
so as new blocks are propagated on the
network
nodes can learn about it at different
speeds so it's actually possible for two
blocks on the network to have a
different view of the blockchain
so remember how nodes choose to follow
the longest chain in proof-of-work
systems
but what if some nodes haven't learned
about the longer chain yet so they
continue to follow the chain that
they currently consider the longest and
this is how you can end up with a
different view of the blockchain as we
try to show in in this example
so on the other hand let's look at the
network that prefers safety over
liveness which is what Stellar consensus
protocol does so the important thing to
realize here is that a split that we had
in proof of work systems can actually
never happen because Stellar consensus
protocol prefers or chooses safety over
liveness so instead
nodes hold if they can't agree on the
same block
so if there is no quorum
that agrees on a particular block nodes
just hold and stop processing
transactions
so we just covered some important
security properties
let's actually see how long it takes to
confirm a transaction on these
blockchains so every bitcoin block takes
about 10 minutes while ethereum
blocks block is about 13 seconds note
that we also included the number of
confirmations needed to consider the
transaction final and this data is
from from coinbase
so remember that in
proof-of-work systems nodes continue
producing blocks and as they discover
newer blocks on the network they might
switch to a longer chain potentially
abandoning the previous chain they
considered longest so because of this we
typically want to wait for the
network to confirm several blocks
after your transaction made it into a
block so
and this is needed to reduce the chances
of the network switching to another
longer
chain
and so on coinbase
as you see in it in a in a table
users wait for three confirmations
for a bitcoin transactions and on
ethereum it's a 35 confirmations
so
this is completely different on Stellar
there's actually no need to wait
because
exactly because of the feature that we
just described in the previous slide
where Stellar prefers safety over
liveness
so because the agreement of the whole
quorum is needed in order to produce a
block once a block is produced
operators can be sure that the block
won't later be revoked so once it's
confirmed it's confirmed
and on Stellar
a block is produced every five seconds
and
only one confirmation is needed to deem
the transaction final
exactly for the reasons that we just
described
okay so now let's also
look at the average transaction cost so
again we averaged the data over the past
12 months
as you can see it's quite different acro
across these networks and i just
across these networks and I just
also wanted to kind of point out that
this fees fluctuate is they depend a lot
on how much competition there is for
a particular transaction to be included
in the block but kind of the most
important point that that i want to make
important point that that I want to make
here is that is the order of magnitude
difference between Stellar and these
other networks despite the fact that
these fees fluctuate
all right so
now let's talk about sustainability
so as you can see proof-of-work
systems require high energy consumption
and energy consumption on Stellar is
quite low and why is
that so remember how we said that in
proof-of-work systems nodes try to solve
a heavy computational task as fast as
they can
so this is directly related to energy
impact so heavy computational tasks
require a lot of cpu
which in turn requires a lot of power
and in proof-of-work systems
validators are essentially incentivized
to have high quality hardware that uses
a lot of power in order to increase
their chances of producing the next
block
this is different on Stellar so because
Stellar does not require computationally
intensive operations to reach consensus
and instead it has
nodes establish trust relationship with
each other and just exchange messages to
reach consensus
this can actually be done on the very
modest hardware and it does not require
a lot of power
all right so we just talked a lot about
a lot of things and the final feature
that i want to talk about is resistance
that I want to talk about is resistance
to 51 attacks so what are these attacks
so again remember that proof of work
systems nodes that solve a
computationally heavy task they get to
produce the next block
so this is also directly related to how
much computational power a validator has
if a validator has a lot of
computational power it is more likely to
win the block race and have the network
accept that block
this means that if validators
with over 50 percent of the computing
power become malicious they have the
ability to take over the network and
dictate every subsequent block
so as an example if a top few miners in
a bitcoin network colluded or
for example a large government felt
threatened by bitcoin and invested a lot
of resources into mining rigs the
network could be taken over
so on Stellar such an attack is not
possible because computing power is not
a feature of consensus
on Stellar nodes choose other nodes that
they trust to decide which transactions
to confirm in the blog
nodes do not accept the block based on
computational power so this means that
even if an attacker adds a million nodes
to the network this will not impact
consensus as long as nodes in network do
not add those malicious nodes to the
quorum slices
and so usually nodes on Stellar add
organizations that they trust to the
aquarium slices so this means an
attacker will need to convince other
nodes
to you know on the network to add
attackers nodes to the quorum sizes
which
can be difficult
all right great so to summarize the
Stellar consensus protocol is a
federated byzantine agreement which
allows for open membership to support
growing decentralization
it has low latency which allows fast
transaction times
it is resistant to malicious actors and
51 attacks and it prefers safety over
liveness to prevent forks
and i know i just said a bunch of things
and I know I just said a bunch of things
I'm going to stop here and see if there
are any questions before giving back to
justin
any takers any questions about consensus
protocols about the Stellar consensus
protocol
I'm always thinking that
i trip over federated byzantine
I trip over federated byzantine
agreement system sometime and I'm like
oh we should
i want to call proof of vote or
I want to call proof of vote or
something
that's not a question shy students if
you have questions sometimes they put
them in the chat too marta oh yeah
right we can do chat as well oh somebody
really encourage you guys to ask
questions
yes yeah hi i was wondering if so if
yes yeah hi I was wondering if so if
when you're talking about security or
safety versus liveness like how does
seller have low isn't that what's the
benefit of live of like liveliness if
the speed for transactions is still
faster on like Stellar like why would
anyone choose to value liveliness
i i think it's just that those
I think it's just that those
consensus protocols are like completely
different like so on Stellar for
example yeah you prefer safety but then
you have to also select your quorum set
correctly and make sure that it's
actually configured correctly which can
be sometimes like difficult and so like
you know on this proof of work systems i
think that's just like a feature of
consensus
yeah because you know this
you can basically have like
multiple chains at the same time and
because it's a distributed system and
you know these computers need to learn
about these different chains on the
proof of work system then they can
have like a partial view
of the network at the time so
i I'm not sure that
well you know one thing i i sometimes
well you know one thing I sometimes
think about with Stellar is like the
validators on the network are known
entities so as smart to point it out
like they have to trust one another they
have to
opt into adding entities to their quorum
set they know who those people are
and so when you value
safe safety right if the network
halts what that means is that
remember it's a decentralized network
nobody has the ability to turn it off no
one can just turn it back on either
right like you actually have to
coordinate validators if a network holds
and so i almost also think that like one
and so I almost also think that like one
feature one necessity for like a network
that does value safety over liveness is
that validators have to be able to find
one another right to restart the network
if something goes wrong and i think on a
if something goes wrong and I think on a
lot of like in in networks that are
proof of work where miners are basically
like anonymous
i don't even know if that would be
I don't even know if that would be
possible
yeah and i think like because Stellar
yeah and I think like because Stellar
was designed for payments like it was
really important then if you know if
something happens like some kind of
split on the network like everybody just
stops you know there's there's no
kind of forking and continuing to
different views of the world if
nobody can agree on one view of the
world everybody just holds so it's kind
of like a important feature given how
the network is used you know like for
payments for cross-border payments
and like assets
any other questions
thank you marta that was awesome all
right I'm going
okay I'm picking it up and I'm talking
about open source contribution so
all of that that martin talked about is
super awesome that is there is a code
base that sort of all these nodes run
that allow them to run to sort of
talk to one another to vote to come to
consensus to ratify transactions
and a fundamental ethos behind the
development of that code base and it's
part of what makes me love sdf is that
it's open source right anyone can review
the code anyone can contribute to the
code no one owes the owns the code right
it's open it's free it's participatory
you listening can join the good fight
today you can work on the code all you
need is a github account
there's a wide world of innovative
Stellar developers and while many of
them are focused on building their own
apps and services that make use of the
network which we'll talk about in a
second the sort of application layer
many are also contributing to helping
evolve the software that powers the
network itself
and that software that powers the
network it never sits still it's
constantly being iterated improved on
worked on in order to fulfill the needs
of the ecosystem including all the
projects that are built to the
application level
so here's a question if you have this
code base and it's evolving and no one
owns it well how does it evolve and I'm
going to talk about that quickly two
main ways
core advancement proposals and Stellar
ecosystem proposals bear with me here
court advancement proposals caps this is
a method that we sort of came up with
the foundation actually i don't even
the foundation actually I don't even
know who started it but at this point it
is a codified process to allow
contribution to come in and amend and
update the code that runs Stellar core
that martin talked about so coordinates
my proposals they're suggested changes
to the protocol of Stellar they have a
direct effect on how the network
operates they're about 40 plus of
them
each one outlines a specific change and
they're used to add new features to the
network itself so a recent example is
one called feedback transactions which
allows fees to be paid by any account on
the network and it enables an
application to cover its users
transaction fees now network fees are
handled at the protocol level so this
new feature it required a new operation
to be built into the protocol and that's
why it had to be implemented in Stellar
core and that's why it was a cap
according proposal
had to be done that one incidentally we
just added automated market making
functionality to Stellar core cap 38.
I'm not gonna get into it right now but
it was super cool
two weeks ago
so caps they have a life cycle right
it's it's it's a multi-step process to
ensure it's high quality and backwards
compatible for cap to be qualified
classified as final and go live on the
network it has to go through all these
stages has to be implemented in the code
but then fundamentally before it
actually hits the network it has to be
accepted by a majority of the network
validators validators vote on the
protocol number the network runs using
the same Stellar consensus protocol they
use to ratify transactions so governance
wise anyone can contribute to code
code can be implemented but before it is
actually adopted the network has to give
it the thumbs up
now that's different that count process
is different than the other kinds of
standards that live outside of the
Stellar code Stellar eco system
proposals seps for short these deal with
changes to the standards and methods
used to build on top of the network
again there are 40 plus of these for
various purposes they're labeled by
numbers
these don't alter the Stellar code but
they are technical blueprints that allow
developers to agree on how services
using the network should be implemented
to allow for maximum interoperability
so basically a lot of the times these
say here's how to set up an extra
network api
there they detail like sort of two sides
of an interaction server side how to
create the api the client side how to
consume the api
again they also follow a a a life cycle
from draft to final
I'm going to give you an example so this
is less abstract step 31 is a standard
that allows businesses to make compliant
cross-border payments on behalf of two
users so imagine a user wants to make a
traditional remittance payment right
they log into admittance providers
website they provide funds and they
enter information about the recipient
and they want to have the money just
show up in the recipients account they
don't even know they're using Stellar
but they're working with companies that
have integrated Stellar on the back end
so to complete the to complete the
transaction and comply with regulations
the remittance provider they actually
need to know the recipient's bank
account and routing number and they need
to collect kyc information about the
recipient
and to do all that they're receiving and
they need to share it with the receiving
party right so
there isn't a direct path between two
yet user Stellar account on network and
so instead the anchors
will create use a sep to create these
extra network apis that allow them to
share kyc information
okay that was sort of a lot again that
was the code marta talked about the
actual consensus protocol those two
things steps and caps were the ways that
the code evolves
but in truth
interacting with Stellar is actually
quite simple and because we're actually
going to move way up the stack now so
most developers who are building on
Stellar they aren't necessarily working
caps or seps they aren't necessarily
thinking about the protocol level or
interacting with Stellar core in the raw
every day they're using an sdk a
software development kit in their
preferred language and those sdks are
interacting with a network api called
horizon
so this three-tiered stack of
responsibilities it sort of divides
things so that each piece of software
can focus on its specific purpose right
Stellar core concentrates on transaction
submission and consensus
horizon provides an ergonomic interface
to allow people to submit to to actually
interact with the network and sdks kind
of abstract away the complexity in a
variety of different languages
so when you're developing on Stellar you
can for the most part kind of not think
about what's going on in the hood at
least not all the time and you can just
use an intuitive rest api to submit
transactions query network data
it's actually pretty cool
but again that feels a bit
abstract so let's make it concrete
we actually have a thing called the
Stellar laboratory this is a handy tool
that you can use to build sign and
submit transactions to the network and
you can use it to query all the api
endpoints
and to understand what that means and
how to use it we're going to do
something quickly right now i hope this
something quickly right now I hope this
works we're going to issue an asset so
we're going to do it on the test net
which is the development sandbox for
Stellar it's just like the main public
network but it's not connected to
real-world money so this is the process
for issuing an asset
on the test net it would be the same for
the real network quick overview okay and
issuing an asset requires a number of
steps and the basic way to do this which
is covered in the developer docs the
easiest way to do this is to create two
accounts one is an issuing account and
one is a distribution account because in
order to issue an asset on Stellar one
account has to trust the other to give
it the asset and then that account has
to make the payment this might seem
weird but you'll see what it looks like
in action and so I'm going to now
open Stellar laboratory let's see
are you seeing Stellar laboratory
okay this is Stellar laboratory and as
you can see it's on the test network
i first want to create two
I first want to create two
new
Stellar accounts so this is what we will
call the issuing account
it's really crazy
and then because in real life you would
need to actually fund this every Stellar
account requires a minimum balance of
lumens in order to exist on the ledger
to prevent spam in real life you'd have
to fund it with real lumens but again
we're on the test network so i can just
we're on the test network so I can just
get test network lumens now this account
has its minimum balance that is my
issuing account I'm generating a second
account this would be the distribution
account
okay
saving these on a
handy spreadsheet in reality you would
be very careful with these keys
and again i've
generated that key pair
that i need to fund it and so
that I need to fund it and so
again this is Stellar laboratory and
what i've just done is created two new
accounts but as you can see up here at
the top there's all these different tabs
that you can use to actually
understand what's going on on the seller
network you can actually build sign
submit transaction and explore endpoints
so to start with we're just going to
build a couple of transactions and what
we're essentially doing is we're taking
that second account that we created
which is the distribution account
I'm adding it here i say fetch the next
I'm adding it here I say fetch the next
sequence number i set the fee
sequence number I set the fee
I'm not going to worry about time
balance but this is me constructing a
transaction and the operation type is
going to be change trust
so to change trust I'm going to
basically
believe in an asset that exists called
you shy that is actually issued by the
issuing account so again what I'm doing
here is with the distribution account
I'm trusting the issuer account for an
asset called you shy I'm basically
going to see that i have generated the
going to see that I have generated the
right transaction envelope
and I'm going to sign this in the
transaction signer
let's hope this works
so i need for that i need the secret key
so I need for that I need the secret key
if you recall i need the secret key of
if you recall I need the secret key of
the
account
see if i do this right
and then i can submit the transaction in
and then I can submit the transaction in
the transactions
this is a three to five seconds as you
can see i submitted the transaction and
can see I submitted the transaction and
the transaction is complete again this
interface you can use to sort of create
any kind of transaction I'm going to do
one more transaction really quickly
which is basically with the issuing
account
I'm going to make a payment
so I'm putting in the issuing account
now I'm fetching the next sequence
number
I'm going to create a payment operation
this always makes me nervous
and I'm going to send it to that
distribution account
here is a distribution account
it's going to be
you try that asset that i created
I'm going to send i don't know 13 13 13.
I'm going to send I don't know 13 13 13.
not many
again i can sign
again I can sign
this with the public key for the issuing
account
so again this all feels a bit strange
but I'm going to wrap it all together so
nicely in the end
and once i sign it
i can submit the transaction let's hope
I can submit the transaction let's hope
it works
transaction submitted okay
so what i just did was that i basically
so what I just did was that I basically
created two accounts one is a issuing
account that actually creates and sends
the asset in a distribution account the
distribution account essentially linked
to the issuing account and said i trust
to the issuing account and said I trust
you to send me an asset and the issuing
account made a payment to the
distribution account and now that
account will hold a balance of the asset
and that was basically we just issued an
asset on seller you can issue any asset
that represents anything with any asset
code and it's just as simple as that
just a few things that you can do in
this interface
or you can do it with an sdk now one
final thing as i mentioned horizon is an
final thing as I mentioned horizon is an
endpoint
i mean is that api that has different
I mean is that api that has different
endpoints and this
interface the Stellar laboratory will
actually show you how to construct
various queries to the horizon endpoints
so right now if i go to horizon and i
so right now if I go to horizon and i
sort of query the
distribution account what it should have
is a balance of this asset that we just
created
oops
so I'm going to put it here
and you will see that in fact if i
scroll down to the json response
that
it does have a balance of this huge shy
asset
so
what i essentially did was issue into
what I essentially did was issue into
this account a new asset that never
existed before on the ledger now part of
what's cool is that this actually
happened on a test network that
replicates the real network and all of
that payment all that issuance was
actually done on multiple nodes and now
I'm going to open just like a totally
different thing this
Stellar expert is a block explorer for
the Stellar network it's not
something that we built it's not
something we maintain it's actually
maintained by a company in in ukraine
right and this is basically a way to
view actions on the Stellar network and
i can it's set up to view the test
I can it's set up to view the test
network so i can actually go to a
network so I can actually go to a
totally different third-party interface
i can look up the key right and i can
I can look up the key right and I can
see that oh look there is
the public key there's the asset that it
issued there's its balance here are the
transaction history here's what we just
did and like this is sort of the way
that it fundamentally works is that
using this api you can create issue you
can create payments
make payments issue assets and all of
that activity is actually done on this
sort of like common blockchain that you
can view from almost any other source
and so that is
asset issuance on
now i accidentally stopped sharing my
now I accidentally stopped sharing my
presentation
sorry
okay
is there more to do here
and so there you go those those features
right the ability to issue assets that
allow you to build an interoperable
world because all kinds of companies or
single devs can sort of build issue
assets build interfaces that connect to
the blockchain
and it is very easy to get started right
Stellar again supports common
development languages javascript and
python there's extensive documentation
developers can build and operate on the
network
with very few resources and there is
this test network and we have great
documentation which you can find at
developers.steller.org
so for anyone who is sort of here and
wants to build on Stellar you can get
started immediately
i guess the final thing that i do want
I guess the final thing that I do want
to say oh no there's way more
the next thing that i want to say is
the next thing that I want to say is
that also if you're interested in
learning more about Stellar and doing
some hands-on stuff with that laboratory
i would suggest that you go to
I would suggest that you go to
quest.Stellar.org
and after signing up with discord and
your albedo wallet you can basically
compete in quests to win an nft badge
several times a year there are live
series where you can compete this is
basically a gamified intro Stellar that
lets you learn if you're going to do it
i'd recommend starting with the practice
quests start with quest one and
you'll need to create an account like i
just did and then it will sort of walk
you through processes that you need to
the resources that you need to complete
the quest
and you'll get a set of keys and once
you submit the right transactions and
you can use that Stellar laboratory
interface you can basically verify your
solution claim an nft
it's super fun even if you don't know
how to code because you can use that
interface and if you run into issues you
can always ask questions in our vibrant
community we have a discord server of
Stellar clusters
and actually that was it so if you
want to find out more about Stellar
go to `stellar.org` again i recommend
go to `stellar.org` again I recommend
using
Stellar quest to keep learning
and that was a fairly deep dive so again
it was we looked at scp we looked at the
Stellar stack we looked at basically the
interface and how you can issue an asset
and then finally
Stellar quest the gamified way to learn
more about Stellar and now
we will open it up for questions